Print as PDF Medical Devices: Register now for high-level conference on 16 March 2026 If you have trouble reading this e-mail read the online version . 3 February 2026 Health and Food Safety Directorate-General eNews Follow us: | | Public Health Medical Devices: Register now for high-level conference on 16 March 2026 On 16 March, the European Commission will host a high-level conference in Brussels entitled “Medical Devices: Innovation and patient safety”, as part of the Cypriot Presidency. Olivér Várhelyi , EU Commissioner for Health and Animal Welfare, will deliver a keynote address at the event. Participants will include representatives from EU regulatory authorities, EU institutions and decision-makers, experts from EU stakeholders’ associations and other stakeholders. The conference follows the proposal to revise the EU’s medical devices and in-vitro diagnostic medical devices legislation, put forward by the Commission on 16 December 2025. It will take stock of latest developments in the sector and the impact that the proposed revisions can have for patients, companies and authorities. The conference will feature three breakout sessions focusing on: Enhanced predictability for conformity assessments : combining certainty with flexibility Clinical evidence at EU level to support the regulatory framework : the key role of Expert Panels Breakthrough technologies for better care : turning guidance into reality Registration for onsite participation at the conference is now open and will close on 20 February. Please note that registration is mandatory. The conference will also be web-streamed live. More information Event page Registration page Medical devices webpage This is the newsletter of DG Health and Food Safety . Visit Your Profile to subscribe, unsubscribe or change your options. For technical problems, please contact sante-webmaster@ec.europa.eu . The European Commission is committed to personal data protection. Any personal data is processed in line with the Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. Please read the privacy statement .