Print as PDF COMBINE programme launches phase 2 of the pilot coordinated assessment procedure for combined studies If you have trouble reading this e-mail read the online version . 26 June 2026 Health and Food Safety Directorate-General eNews Follow us: | Public Health COMBINE programme launches phase 2 of the pilot coordinated assessment procedure for combined studies Building on the success of the first phase of the COMBINE coordinated assessment pilot, the European Commission and EU Member States are today launching the second phase. Phase 1 offered the first experience of coordinated assessment for combined studies through the Clinical Trials Information System (CTIS). Phase 2, which is expected to remain open for at least one year, expands the scope of studies eligible to participate and introduces a more agile, rolling process with monthly slots for the submission of expressions of interest. Today’s launch marks a major step towards more streamlined, efficient, and coordinated regulatory pathways across combined medicine-device therapies . By simplifying processes and enabling joint assessment, the pilot aims to support innovation while maintaining robust regulatory oversight across the EU. What’s New in phase 2 Eligibility for multinational investigational medicinal product (IMP) clinical trials combined with: Performance studies of IVDs or companion diagnostics requiring authorisation Clinical investigations of medical devices requiring authorisation Combined studies with Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs) possible Options for single or separate sponsors Procedure for substantial modifications in combined studies authorised in the pilot to be launched later in phase 2 Exploration of single protocols and joint documents When to express interest for phase 2 Sponsors must submit their expressions of interest by the 23rd of the month preceding the month in which they intend to submit their application. The first monthly application window will open in September 2026. To apply to the September round, sponsors must submit their expressions of interest by 23 August 2026. For more information and to apply for the pilot COMBINE coordinated assessment procedure, please visit the European Commission's website . This is the newsletter of DG Health and Food Safety . Visit Your Profile to subscribe, unsubscribe or change your options. For technical problems, please contact sante-webmaster@ec.europa.eu . The European Commission is committed to personal data protection. Any personal data is processed in line with the Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. Please read the privacy statement .