- 1 -  
Q&A on practical aspects related to the implementation of the Article 10a obligation in 
case of interruption or discontinuation of supply of certain devices as introduced by 
Regulation (EU) 2024/1860 amending Regulations (EU) 2017/745 and (EU) 2017/746 as 
regards a gradual roll-out of Eudamed, the obligation to inform in case of interruption 
or discontinuation of supply, and transitional provisions for certain in vitro diagnostic 
medical devices1. 
Disclaimer: This Q&A document is intended to facilitate the application of Regulation (EU) 2024/1860 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2024 amending Regulations (EU) 2017/745 (MDR) and 
(EU) 2017/746 (IVDR) as regards a gradual roll-out of Eudamed, the obligation to inform in case of interruption 
or discontinuation of supply, and transitional provisions for certain in vitro diagnostic medical devices. This 
document has not been formally endorsed by the European Commission and is without prejudice to any 
interpretation of the relevant provisions by the Court of Justice of the European Union or national courts. The 
information in this Q&A document is of a general nature and not intended to address specific circumstances of 
any particular case; the document does not intend to provide professional or legal advice. The information is 
not necessarily comprehensive nor complete. If needed, this document will be updated in order to address 
additional questions that may arise. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Regulation (EU) 2024/1860 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2024 amending Regulations (EU) 2017/745 an d 
(EU) 2017/746 as regards a gradual roll -out of Eudamed, the obligation to inform in case of interruption or discontinuation of supply, and 
transitional provisions for certain in vitro diagnostic medical devices (OJ L, 9.7.2024,  p. 1). Regulation (EU) 2024/1860 has entered into 
force on 9 July 2024. 
- 2 -  
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Introduction – Objectives of the MDR/IVDR amendment ................................ ................................ .... 3 
The information obligations in case of the interruption or discontinuation of supply ............................. 4 
PART A – GENERAL ................................ ................................ ................................ ....................... 4 
1. From when does the new Article 10a of the MDR/IVDR apply? ................................ .................. 4 
2. To whom does the obligation to inform of an anticipated interruption or discontinuation of 
supply of certain devices under Article 10a(1) of the MDR/IVDR apply? ................................ ..... 4 
3. To which “certain devices” does Article 10a(1) of the MDR/IVDR apply? ................................ .... 4 
PART B – MANUFACTURERS’ OBLIGATIONS ................................ ................................ .............. 5 
4. Who should the manufacturer inform under Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR? ........................... 5 
5. When should a manufacturer inform under Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR? ............................ 5 
6. What is meant by “exceptional circumstances” in Article 10a (1) second subparagraph of the 
MDR/IVDR?................................ ................................ ................................ ...............................  6 
7. What is meant by the “anticipation of an ‘interruption or discontinuation’ of the supply of a 
device” as outlined in Article 10a (1) of the MDR or IVDR? ................................ ....................... 6 
8. What are the categories of reasons for the interruption or discontinuation which the 
manufacturer would be expected to specify in its notification to the competent authority under 
Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR? ................................ ................................ ..............................  7 
9. What is considered as an ‘interruption or discontinuation that may result in serious harm or a 
risk of serious harm to patients or public health’ in one or more Member States under Article 
10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR? ................................ ................................ ................................ ........ 8 
9.1 How can the manufacturer approach the assessment to determine whether the interruption or 
discontinuation in the supply of the device may result in serious harm to patients or public health? 
. ................................ ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................... 8 
9.2 Which indicators can the manufacturer take into account when performing its assessment? ..... 8 
10. Is the information provided to the competent authority subject to Article 109 MDR/102 IVDR?... 9 
11. How should the information to the competent authority under Article 10a be provided? .............. 9 
12. Which information should be included in the ‘Manufacturer Information Form’2 for notification to 
the competent authority under Article 10a? ................................ ................................ .............. 10 
PART C –OTHER ECONOMIC OPERATORS' OBLIGATIONS ................................ ...................... 10 
13. What is the responsibility of other economic operators in the supply chain under Article 10a(3) 
of the MDR and IVDR after receiving the information from the manufacturer? .......................... 10 
14. Does Article 10a of the MDR/IVDR apply to system or procedure packs? ................................ . 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 Please see MDCG 2024-16 ‘Manufacturer Information Form on Interruption or Discontinuation of Supply of certain medical devices and 
certain in vitro diagnostic medical devices’. 
- 3 -  
Introduction – Objectives of the MDR/IVDR amendment 
The amendment of the MDR and of the IVDR through Regulation (EU) 2024/1860 addresses three topics: 
1. Regulation (EU) 2024/1860 aims to ensure a high level of patient safety and public health protection, 
including the mitigation of risks related to discontinuation or interruption of supply of in vitro diagnostic medical 
devices (IVDs) needed for the smooth functioning of healthcare services, without  lowering current quality or 
safety requirements. For that purpose, manufacturers and notified bodies are given extra time to carry out, 
in accordance with the IVDR, the conformity assessment of IVDs covered by a certificate or a declaration of 
conformity issued in accordance with Directive 98/79/EC. Questions and answers regarding the extension of 
the IVDR transitional periods are set out in a separate document. 
2. Regulation (EU) 2024/1860 also imposes a requirement on manufacturers to inform the relevant competent 
authority and health institutions before the supply of certain medical devices or IVDs is interrupted or 
discontinued. If manufacturers do not supply directly to health institutions or healthcare professionals, they 
must inform the relevant economic operators in the supply chain, which then must inform the health 
institutions. This mechanism will enable the competent authority and health institutions to consider mitigating 
measures to ensure patient health and safety. Questions and answers regarding this topic are set out in this 
document. 
3. Regulation (EU) 2024/1860 also enables a gradual roll -out of the electronic systems integrated into the 
European database on medical devices (‘Eudamed’) that are finalised, instead of deferring the mandatory 
use of Eudamed until the last of the six modules is completed. The use of Eudamed – and especially its 
systems for the registration of economic operators, devices and certificates – will improve transparency and 
provide information on devices on the EU market, helping to monitor the availability of devices. Questions 
and answers regarding this topic will be set out in a separate document. 
 
 
 
 
 
       Q&A revision history 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date Action 
October 2024 Initial issue 
December 2024 1st update (Rev. 1) 
- Table of Contents: update of footnote 2 
- Q&A no 8: update of footnote 8 
- Q&A no 11: update of footnote 11 
- Q&A no 12: addition of footnote 12 
April 2026 2nd Update (Rev. 2) 
- In Question 9.2, the following note has been revised from 
‘This question may be further complemented by a decision 
tree diagram’ to: ‘Note: This question is complemented by a 
decision tree diagram.’ 
Footnote 10 has been updated and includes a link to the 
location of the decision tree diagram. 
- 4 -  
The information obligations in case of the interruption or discontinuation of supply 
The answers to the questions set out below have been developed taking into account the objectives pursued 
by the amendment with a view to providing clarity on the information sharing obligations introduced in Article 
10a. 
 
PART A – GENERAL 
 
1. From when does the new Article 10a of the MDR/IVDR apply? 
The provisions of Article 10a of the MDR/IVDR apply from 10 January 2025, as defined in Article 3 of the 
Regulation 2024/1860. Interruptions or discontinuations of the supply of a device anticipated by the 
manufacturer prior to this date, do not need to be reported, even if the interruption of discontinuation itself occurs 
after 10 January 2025. 
 
Nonetheless, manufacturers are encouraged to inform the users of their devices of supply interruptions or 
discontinuations on a voluntary basis before 10 January 2025, in line with existing best practices.  
 
 
2. To whom does the obligation to inform of an anticipated interruption or discontinuation of supply 
of certain devices under Article 10a(1) of the MDR/IVDR apply? 
The obligation to inform about an anticipated interruption or discontinuation of supply of certain devices rests 
with the manufacturers only, whether established inside or outside the European Union. The manufacturer 
cannot delegate its legal responsibility for this task, however it can engage the assistance of its authorised 
representative, other economic operators or a third party, in the practical implementation of the required 
operational tasks. 
 
Once the notification is complete, it is the responsibility of the notified economic operators to cascade the 
information as provided by the manufacturer (without changing, adding to or paraphrasing this communication 
so as to preserve its integrity) to the downstream supply chain, including until it reaches health institutions or 
healthcare professionals as relevant. 
 
 
3. To which “certain devices”’ does Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR apply? 
With the exception of custom-made devices, Article 10a of the MDR/IVDR as of its application date 10 January 
2025, applies to all models or types of devices 3, placed on the Union market and for which it is reasonably 
foreseeable that a supply interruption or discontinuation could result in serious harm or a risk of serious harm 
to patients or public health in one or more Member States. 
The manufacturer must determine whether it is reasonably foreseeable that an interruption or discontinuation 
of their device could result in serious harm or a risk of serious harm to patients or public health.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Note that Article 10a also applies to legacy devices, see Article 120(13) of the MDR and Article 110(11) of the IVDR. 
- 5 -  
PART B – MANUFACTURERS’ OBLIGATIONS 
 
4. Who should the manufacturer inform under Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR? 
The manufacturer should inform: 
 
• the economic operators (EO)4, health institutions (HI)5 and healthcare professionals (HCP) to whom 
the manufacturer directly supplies the device, 
• the competent authority of the Member State where it or its authorised representative is established. 
It is essential that manufacturers inform all EOs, HIs and HCPs whom they directly supply, who are impacted 
by the supply interruption or discontinuation. Cases where EOs, HIs or HCPs are not impacted would include 
e.g. where the manufacturer had already ceased supply before such time that it anticipated an interruption or 
discontinuation. 
It is also important for HIs and competent authorities to be adequately informed so that they can, where 
necessary, consider mitigating measures to ensure the continued health and safety of patients.  
 
Manufacturers are not obliged, however, to inform those actors whom they do not directly supply. The 
responsibility for onward information sharing in the downstream supply chain lies with the EOs following the 
receipt of the information from the manufacturer or another EO. 
Example of the onward information sharing in the context of a supply interruption where the 
manufacturer does not directly supply to the health institution: 
On 1 May 2025, a manufacturer of a CE -marked pacemaker confirms that a supply interruption is expected to 
begin in approximately seven months i.e. 1 December 2025. The manufacturer, located outside of the Union, 
does not supply the pacemakers directly to HIs. Instead, the devices are supplied to importers, who then supply 
them to a network of distributors that ultimately deliver them to HIs across several Member States. In this case, 
the information flow should proceed as follows: 
 
1. Initial manufacturer information obligation:  by 1 June 2025, i.e. at least six months before the confirmed 
anticipated start of the supply interruption on 1 December 2025, the manufacturer must inform the 
competent authority in the Member State where its authorised representative is established, as well as the 
importers to whom it supplied the device in question. 
2. Downstream information flow: 
• Importers: Upon receiving this information from the manufacturer, the importers of the device in 
question must, without undue delay, transmit the information, as provided by the manufacturer, to 
all distributors to whom they directly supply. 
• Distributors: When receiving the information from the importers, distributors must without undue 
delay, relay it, as provided by the manufacturer to any other distributors to whom they supply the 
device in question as well as the HI they supply. 
 
5. When should a manufacturer inform under Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR? 
The information should, other than in exceptional circumstances, be provided to the relevant actors referred to 
in Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR at least six months before the manufacturer’s anticipated interruption or 
discontinuation is expected to occur. 
“At least six months” means the manufacturer should inform at a minimum 6 months in advance but can and is 
encouraged to inform of interruptions or discontinuations earlier in time where possible, following its assessment 
 
4 The term “economic operator’’ as defined in Article 2(35) of the MDR and Article 2(28) of the IVDR includes the manufacturer, authorised 
representative, importer, distributor and for MDR only, the person referred to in Article 22(1) and 22(3) (also referred to a s: system and 
procedure pack producer). 
5 Article 2(36) of the MDR, Article 2(29) of the IVDR 
- 6 -  
and confirmation. This is especially encouraged in the case of a planned discontinuation. 
 
It is acknowledged that exceptional circumstances may prevent a manufacturer from meeting this requirement. 
Under such exceptional circumstances the manufacturer should inform the relevant actors without undue delay 
(see question 6). 
It is encouraged that the manufacturer has adequate processes and monitoring systems in place in order to 
fulfil its notification obligation in a timely manner. 
 
6. What is meant by “exceptional circumstances” in Article 10a (1) second subparagraph of the 
MDR/IVDR? 
Exceptional circumstances exist when a manufacturer is unable to anticipate or confirm a supply interruption or 
discontinuation at least six months in advance of its onset. This may include cases where the interruption or 
discontinuation occurs due to sudden and unexpected external or internal circumstances. For instance, a natural 
disaster, an interruption due to a sudden inability to obtain raw materials or components, or a discontinuation 
due to unexpected circumstances including of an economic or financial nature.  
 
 
7. What is meant by the “anticipation of an ‘interruption or discontinuation’ of the supply of a device” 
as outlined in Article 10a (1) of the MDR or IVDR? 
 
An “interruption of supply” should be understood as the consequence of a manufacturer confirming that they 
cannot or are unwilling to operate as previously intended or planned in relation to the supply of a device, which 
can lead to a temporary disruption of supply. With the view to making the application of the Article 10a 
information obligation workable in practice and to avoid unnecessary reporting, an interruption of supply should 
be understood as having a temporary inability to place individual devices of a given model or type on the Union 
market, with an expected duration of more than 60 days, as a general indication. However, this should not 
prevent the manufacturer from notifying of a supply interruption lasting less than 60 days if they assess that this 
may result in serious harm or a risk of serious harm to patients or public health.  
 
A “discontinuation of supply” should be understood to include when a manufacturer can confirm that it will 
cease the supply of a device and therefore no longer places the individual devices of this model or type on the 
Union market. 
In this context, “anticipation” should be understood to mean that the manufacturer confirms that an interruption 
or discontinuation of a device supply will occur. This ‘confirmation’ includes the analysis of the problem or 
business decision at hand, the evaluation of mitigation measures in operations and in the supply chain as well 
as the development of appropriate communication strategies for stakeholders to be addressed.  
 
The “anticipation” of the interruption or discontinuation of supply is limited to the manufacturer's: 
• confirmation of its own supply, based on its manufacturing activities or, information received from third 
parties e.g. critical suppliers or 
• confirmation of its own capabilities to produce the device or 
• its own decision to stop placing the device on the Union market. 
It does not include the subsequent making available of the device by other economic operators. Furthermore, 
the anticipated interruption or discontinuation should be related to the notifying manufacturer’s own device 
exclusively, considering also its own market share. When assessing whether an interruption or discontinuation 
in supply is anticipated, the manufacturer is not required to consider information related to the following 
examples: 
 
• the appropriateness of devices of other manufacturers which serve a similar intended purpose, and 
which may be alternatively used according to the advice of healthcare professionals,  
• the available stock of alternative devices at the various economic operators in the supply chain, 
• the capability of other manufacturers to produce in sufficient quality or quantities. 
- 7 -  
Manufacturers are, in principle, not required to inform under Article 10a of the MDR/IVDR if: 
• the manufacturer replaces the device subject to the supply interruption or discontinuation with a 
successor device that covers a similar intended purpose and is intended to be used alternatively.  
• the manufacturer has a stockpile to serve the demand during an interruption or to bridge the time until 
the availability of the impacted device and/or successor device. 
• the manufacturer has received information from health institutions or healthcare professionals that no 
serious harm or a risk of serious harm to patients or public health would occur from a device 
discontinuation or supply interruption, for example due to the availability of a suitable alternative device 
which has been confirmed to respond to the expected demand. 
 
8. What are the categories of reasons for the interruption or discontinuation which the manufacturer 
would be expected to specify in its notification to the competent authority under Article 10a (1) of 
the MDR/IVDR? 
The anticipation of the interruption or discontinuation of the supply of a device can be for many reasons6 and is 
not limited to regulatory considerations. This may for example, include external factors with a direct impact on 
the manufacturing process or supply of the device. Potential reasons for the anticipated interruption or 
discontinuation may include the below examples under the following headings (non -exhaustive): 
• Regulatory 
o A loss of compliance with a condition in Article 120 of the MDR / Article 110 of the IVDR to 
place a legacy device7 on the market 
o Delay in certification of the type of device (including a corresponding substitute) against the 
requirements of the MDR or IVDR 
o Suspended or withdrawn certificate 
o Decision by the manufacturer of the type of device to not pursue certification in compliance 
with the MDR/IVDR and to stop marketing of the device (discontinuation) 
• Manufacturing 
o Device performance reasons 
• Supply Chain 
o Shortage of or inability to obtain raw materials or components 
• Other 
o Marketing or business reasons 
o Unpredicted major event outside manufacturer's control 
 
Note: the manufacturer should specify the reasons for the interruption or discontinuation of supply in the 
‘Manufacturer Information Form’ 8. In this form, the manufacturer can provide further information or details 
to the competent authority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 'See Recital 15 of Regulation 2024/1860 'where manufacturers anticipate, for any reason, the interruption or discontinuation of supply of 
medical devices or in vitro diagnostic medical devices’. 
7 MDCG 2020-3 Rev.1 Guidance on significant changes regarding the transitional provision under Article 120 of the MDR with regard to 
devices covered by certificates according to MDD or AIMDD, Section 1, May 2023, applied mutatis mutandis to IVDs. 
8 Please see MDCG 2024-16 ‘Manufacturer Information Form on Interruption or Discontinuation of Supply of certain medical devices and 
certain in vitro diagnostic medical devices’. 
- 8 -  
9. What is considered as an “interruption or discontinuation that may result in serious harm or a risk 
of serious harm to patients or public health” in one or more Member States under Article 10a (1) of 
the MDR/IVDR? 
The potential consequence of the interruption or discontinuation of a supply of a manufacturer’s device, is that 
a particular diagnosis method or patient therapy may not be available in one or more Member States. This non-
availability of the particular diagnosis method or patient therapy, may result in “serious harm or risk of serious 
harm to patients or public health”. 
“Serious harm or risk of serious harm to patients or public health” should be understood as any serious injury 
to patients or threat to public health that occurs, or where there is a significant probability of this occurring. 
Cases where ‘non-availability’ may result in ‘serious harm or a risk thereof’ include where patients face:  
 
• an imminent risk of death, 
• a serious deterioration of patient health9, or 
• a life-threatening condition 
and for which, no suitable alternative diagnosis method or therapy (including, but not limited to, pharmaceutical 
therapy) is available. 
It should be noted that serious harm can also be due to the inability of a healthcare professional to deliver a 
specific medical treatment due to an interruption or discontinuation in the supply of a device.  
 
 
9.1 How can the manufacturer approach the assessment to determine whether the interruption or 
discontinuation in the supply of the device may result in serious harm to patients or public health? 
 
It is the responsibility of the manufacturer to assess whether the interruption or discontinuation in the supply of 
the device may result in serious harm to patients or public health. For the assessment the following should be 
considered: 
 
• the potential for serious harm to patients should not be assessed based on an individual patient case; 
rather, the harm should be considered for the patients of the population for which the device is intended. 
• it is not expected that the manufacturer conducts a comprehensive market analysis but that it bases its 
assessment on available information at its disposal, limited to the manufacturer’s awareness of its own 
device supply. 
• the manufacturer may consult with physicians, medical societies, or healthcare facilities to gather any 
further information which it determines to be necessary for assessing the impact that interrupted supply 
or discontinuation of the device may have on patient safety and health. 
 
9.2 Which indicators can the manufacturer take into account when performing its assessment? 
 
When determining whether an anticipated supply interruption or discontinuation may result in serious harm to 
patients or public health, the following possible indicators may assist the manufacturer in its assessment. These 
indicators are non -exhaustive and not all indicators are to be considered for each assessment by the 
manufacturer. 
The relevance of the device for ensuring essential healthcare services: 
- the intended purpose of the device e.g. is it a life-sustaining or life-saving device or accessory. 
- is the device intended for a specific patient population e.g., vulnerable populations such as paediatric 
or geriatric patients. 
 
 
9 Definition provided in MDCG 2023-3 ‘Questions and Answers on vigilance terms and concepts as outlined in the Regulation (EU) 2017/745 
on medical devices’. 
- 9 -  
- if the disruption or interruption will limit the patients from access to treatment e.g. are there any 
secondary possibilities of getting the treatment without the device? 
- is there a dependency of patient health and safety on the continuous availability of the device in 
question. 
Alternative solutions: 
- if the manufacturer is able to provide a suitable successor or alternative solution. For interruptions, this 
should be also taken into account the expected length of the interruption.  
- is there any required infrastructure, or any training required to use the alternate successor device or 
any other alternative solutions. 
- is, to the current knowledge of the manufacturer, a suitable alternative device available from another 
manufacturer which can meet expected demand. 
Other factors 
- whether there is an objective reason to anticipate an interruption or discontinuation of supply of a certain 
device or range of devices or an entire product line? 
- the quantities of devices already made available on the market in one or more Member States. 
- available stocks or timelines for procuring alternatives for such devices. 
- market share of the device in question. 
- have mitigations measures to prevent the interruption or discontinuation of supply been considered? 
- will the devices continue to be available from stockpile during the interruption? 
 
Note: This question is complemented by a decision tree diagram 10. 
 
 
10. Is the information provided to the competent authority subject to Article 109 MDR/102 IVDR? 
The information provided to the competent authority pursuant to Article 10a of the Regulations is subject to 
Article 109 of the MDR and Article 102 of the IVDR. 
 
However, the competent authority that receives the information will need to share some of the information 
provided with competent authorities of the other Member States and the Commission to inform them of the 
anticipated interruption or discontinuation per Article 10a (2). Also, the competent authorities receiving the 
information regarding the anticipated interruption or discontinuation may need to act upon the information 
received and share part of the information received with health institutions, healthcare professionals, importers 
or distributors within their jurisdiction. 
 
11. How should the information to the competent authority under Article 10a be provided? 
To inform the relevant competent authority, the manufacturer, its mandated authorised representative, or any 
other actor acting on behalf of the manufacturer should provide the information specified as required in the 
‘Manufacturer Information Form’ 11. The information should then be submitted to the competent authority of the 
Member State where the manufacturer or its authorised representative is established.  
 
It should be noted that Member States may provide additional information on how to submit the information in 
the form, on the websites of the relevant competent authority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 A decision tree diagram that may assist manufacturers when assessing an interruption or discontinuation of supply has been 
developed by competent authorities within a task force under the Competent Authorities for Medical Devices (CAMD). The decision 
tree is available here: Guidance - MDCG endorsed documents and other guidance - Public Health. 
11 Please see MDCG 2024-16 ‘Manufacturer Information Form on Interruption or Discontinuation of Supply of certain medical devices  
      and certain in vitro diagnostic medical devices’. 
- 10  
12. Which information should be included in the ‘Manufacturer Information Form’ for notification to the 
competent authority under Article 10a? 
 
Manufacturers are requested to include all information specified as required (i.e., not marked as voluntary) in 
the ‘Manufacturer Information Form’ 12, when submitting the notification to the competent authority of the 
Member State where it or its authorised representative is established. Additionally, manufacturers may 
voluntarily inform the competent authority of any relevant changes to the submitted form by sending an 
updated form, indicating either 'additional information' or 'follow -up information', reflected as voluntary in 
section 1, sub-section 'type of information' of the MIF. When using either option, the submitter should specify 
which sections of the form have been modified, e.g., Section 2, sub -section 'X'. In sections marked as 
"voluntary", manufacturers can include additional information  relating to the interruption or discontinuation that 
will be useful to the competent authority in the appraisal of the situation. 
 
PART C – OTHER ECONOMIC OPERATORS' OBLIGATIONS 
 
13. What is the responsibility of other economic operators in the supply chain under Article 10a (3) of 
the MDR and IVDR after receiving the information from the manufacturer?  
 
The information obligation regarding an anticipated interruption or discontinuation of device supply in Article 
10a of the MDR/IVDR is intended to have a cascading effect. The information originating from the manufacturer, 
should be passed to other economic operators in the downstream supply, until it reaches the relevant health 
institutions, or healthcare professionals. 
 
Relevant economic operators therefore who have received information from the manufacturer under Article 
10a(1) of the MDR/IVDR or another economic operator in the supply chain (e.g. from importers or distributors), 
are expected to further share this information ‘without undue delay’ with other  economic operators, health 
institutions and healthcare professionals to whom they directly supply the device. It is expected that economic 
operators do not change, add to or paraphrase the communication received from the manufacturer so as to 
preserve its integrity. 
 
For the purposes of this document, “without undue delay” should be understood as acting, as soon as possible, 
and without any delay that is intentionally or negligently caused by the economic operator. This will allow for the 
rapid further distribution of information following receipt from upstream suppliers, to ensure downstream actors 
are informed in a timely manner and can prepare any mitigating measures.  
It is recalled that Article 25 of the MDR/IVDR requires economic operators to achieve an appropriate level of 
traceability of devices and be able to identify their upstream and downstream suppliers. Article 25(2) of the 
MDR/IVDR requires economic operators to be able to identify any economic operator or any health institution 
or healthcare professional to whom they have directly supplied a device.  
 
 
14. Does Article 10a of the MDR/IVDR apply to system or procedure packs? 
Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR applies to manufacturers of individual CE -marked devices within a system or 
procedure pack. These manufacturers are responsible for informing the relevant parties, as outlined in Article 
10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR, including the competent authority and the system or procedure pack producer, about 
any interruption or discontinuation of their devices. Upon receiving this information, the system or procedure 
pack producer must, in accordance with Article 10a (3) of the MDR/IVDR and without undue delay, transmit this 
information to other economic operators, health institutions, and healthcare professionals to whom they directly 
supply the device. 
Example of the information sharing flow in a scenario where the manufacturer does not directly supply 
to the health institution/healthcare professional: 
A manufacturer of a CE-marked device, which is only used in surgical procedure packs intended for professional 
use, is informed of a supply interruption that fulfils the information condition of Article 10a (1) of the MDR/IVDR. 
 
 
 
12 Please see MDCG 2024-16 ‘Manufacturer Information Form on Interruption or Discontinuation of Supply of certain medical devices and 
certain in vitro diagnostic medical devices’. 
- 11  
The manufacturer, which is located in a Member State, does not incorporate the CE -marked device into the 
surgical procedure pack nor directly supply (their device) or this product to health institutions. Instead, the 
manufacturer supplies the device to the persons referred to in Article 22(1) of the MDR, who then incorporate 
the device into surgical procedure packs. These procedure packs are then distributed to health institutions 
through regional and local distributors. In this case, the information flow should be as follows:  
 
• The manufacturer should inform the relevant competent authority in the Member State where it is 
established and the person(s) referred to in Article 22(1) of the MDR at least six months before the 
anticipated interruption. 
 
• The person(s) referred to in Article 22(1) of the MDR must, promptly and without undue delay, inform 
the distributors to whom they directly supply the device, which is incorporated in the system and 
procedure pack, of the anticipated interruption. 
• The distributors who have received this information must, promptly and without undue delay, inform 
other distributors, health institutions and healthcare professionals to whom they directly supply the 
device.