Print as PDF Medical Devices: Delegated acts on well-established technologies published If you have trouble reading this e-mail read the online version . 29 June 2026 Health and Food Safety Directorate-General eNews Follow us: | Public Health Medical Devices: Delegated acts on well-established technologies published Two delegated acts on well-established technologies (WET) under the Medical Devices Regulation have been published today in the Official Journal of the EU. Well-established technologies are relatively simple devices, with common and stable designs that don’t evolve much, well-known safety and clinical performance characteristics, and a long history on the market. The delegated regulations published today expand the list of WET devices under the Medical Devices Regulation. This will make certain requirements more proportionate for devices on that list, to reduce the burden on manufacturers, in line with the Commission’s simplification agenda. The list of WET devices included in these delegated acts was developed in 2025 by a dedicated Task Force of national experts from the Medical Device Coordination Group (MDCG), following a call for evidence that allowed stakeholder input. Now that the implementing acts have been published in the Offical Journal, they will enter into force in 20 days time. Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2026/1451 of 20 March 2026 amending Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of implantable devices and class III devices exempted from the obligation to perform clinical investigations Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2026/1359 of 20 March 2026 amending Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of class IIb implantable devices exempted from the obligation to perform an assessment of the technical documentation for every device This is the newsletter of DG Health and Food Safety . Visit Your Profile to subscribe, unsubscribe or change your options. For technical problems, please contact sante-webmaster@ec.europa.eu . The European Commission is committed to personal data protection. Any personal data is processed in line with the Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. Please read the privacy statement .