[26 January 2015]
Last updated:

[5 September 2025]
—
See all updates
Get emails about this page
Contents
Guidance on the post-market surveillance requirements for manufacturers
Supplementary guidance on a manufacturer’s vigilance system
Guidance on the Manufacturers online reporting environment (MORE)
Periodic safety update reports
Post-market surveillance reports
Device-specific vigilance guidance
Additional information
In 2024, the government put in place legislation to clarify and strengthen the post-market surveillance requirements for medical devices in use in Great Britain. These measures came into force on 16 June 2025 and will facilitate greater traceability of incidents and trends and allow the MHRA to act swiftly when needed, supporting better risk management and containment of safety issues and reducing harm.
The new set of regulations
The Medical Devices (Post-market Surveillance Requirements) (Amendment) (Great Britain) Regulations 2024
amends the UK Medical Devices Regulations (MDR) 2002 by inserting a new Part 4A on post- market surveillance (PMS) requirements for medical devices, including in vitro diagnostic (IVD) devices and active implantable medical devices which apply in Great Britain (GB). It includes notification requirements for incidents, and preventive and corrective actions taking place after the device is first approved for the GB market.
The regulations apply to Great Britain (England, Wales and Scotland). Medical devices placed on the market or put into service in Northern Ireland (NI) must follow the post-market surveillance rules set out in EU medical devices regulations as explained by guidance on the
Regulation of devices in Northern Ireland
.
This information is designed to help you understand the main changes that implementing the post-market surveillance regulations will introduce for medical devices and what you need to do to prepare.
The MHRA has updated its processes and procedures to ensure that trends, patterns or signals that may reveal new risks or safety concerns are identified more efficiently. This will allow both the MHRA and the whole healthcare system to better protect patients. Updated MORE guidance has been published detailing any changes to the submission of reports.  Further guidance will be made available alongside access to new schemas for GB reporting before these regulations come into force. The MHRA are working closely with industry to support adoption and smooth implementation of the new requirements. Please continue to check this page and the
MORE portal
for updates on timelines for new forms and access to key submission resources.
Guidance on the post-market surveillance requirements for manufacturers
The Medical Devices (Post-market Surveillance Requirements) (Amendment) (Great Britain) Regulations 2024: guidance on implementation
Video explainer
Post-market surveillance and vigilance of medical devices webinar
Summary tables
Table of key changes
Table of requirements applying to different devices
Supplementary guidance on a manufacturer’s vigilance system
Effective field safety notices – guidance for manufacturers of medical devices
Examples of incidents which should be reported under the vigilance system
Guidance on the Manufacturers online reporting environment (MORE)
Manufacturer’s Online Reporting Environment (MORE) guidance
GB MIR and FSCA schema implementation guide
Implementation of data requirements under the new Post-Marketing Surveillance regulations
Documentation for implementation of data requirements under the new Post-Marketing Surveillance regulations
Periodic safety update reports
Medical Devices: Standardised format for periodic safety update report (PSUR)
The Medical Devices (Post-market Surveillance Requirements) (Amendment) (Great Britain) Regulations 2024: guidance on periodic safety update reports (PSUR) (regulation 44ZM) for approved bodies
Post-market surveillance reports
Medical Devices: Standardised format for post market surveillance report (PMSR)
Device-specific vigilance guidance
Device specific vigilance guidance: Coronary Stents and associated delivery systems
Device specific vigilance guidance: Inferior vena cava (IVC) filters
Device specific vigilance guidance: Artificial Heart Valves
Device specific vigilance guidance: Cardiac Implantable Electronic Devices (CIEDs)
Adverse incidents: in vitro diagnostic (IVD) blood glucose meters
Reporting adverse incidents: intraocular lenses
Reporting adverse incidents: joint replacement implants
Reporting adverse incidents: neurostimulators
Breast implants: reporting adverse incidents
Reporting adverse incidents: insulin pumps and meter systems
Reporting adverse incidents: devices for cardiac ablation
Reporting adverse incidents: software as a medical device
Additional information
Field safety notices: guidance for manufacturers

[16 June 2025]
Guidance
Reporting adverse incidents: intraocular lenses

[15 January 2025]
Guidance
Reporting adverse incidents: joint replacement implants

[15 January 2025]
Guidance
Reporting adverse incidents: neurostimulators

[15 January 2025]
Guidance
Adverse incidents: in vitro diagnostic (IVD) blood glucose meters

[15 January 2025]
Guidance
Updates to this page
Published 26 January 2015
Last updated 5 September 2025
—
Show all updates

[5 September 2025]
Added link to guidance for 'Medical Devices: Standardised format for post market surveillance report (PMSR)'

[16 June 2025]
Updated to reflect the coming into force of The Medical Devices (Post-market Surveillance requirements) (Amendment) Regulations 2024.

[9 June 2025]
Link added for 'Documentation for implementation of data requirements under the new Post-Marketing Surveillance regulations'

[16 May 2025]
Updated to provide the latest information regarding the MORE portal.

[15 January 2025]
Updated to reflect the laying of The Medical Devices (Post-market Surveillance requirements) (Amendment) Regulations 2024.

[3 August 2023]
Guidance updated to reflect the latest information regarding the MORE portal.

[3 August 2023]
Guidance updated.

[15 May 2023]
Added link to 'Guidance: Reporting adverse incidents involving Software as a Medical Device under the vigilance system'

[24 April 2023]
Information and links to the MORE Submissions guidance and MORE production API guidance have been added.

[5 December 2022]
Updated changes to the Incident reporting system

[28 October 2022]
Recording added for webinar 'Changes to Submitting Adverse Incidents to Medical Devices to the MHRA'

[6 October 2022]
Detailing changes to  the Incident reporting system in the section 'Changes to the Incident reporting system'

[31 December 2020]
This page has been updated due to the end of the Brexit transition period.

[6 August 2020]
New document for European Commission's guidance on reporting incidents with cardiac implantable electronic devices

[20 May 2020]
Added a new document - Effective field safety notices (FSNs): guidance for manufacturers of medical devices

[25 June 2019]
New information about upcoming MDR and IVDR regulations added to the page.

[26 February 2019]
Added a link to new guidance on medical devices regulation in a no deal scenario.

[20 November 2018]
Further guidance on producing and distributing effective field safety notices has been added.

[17 August 2016]
Link to European Commissions detailed guidance updated

[26 January 2015]
First published.
Contents
Related content
Collection
Services and information
Explore the topic
Healthcare, life sciences and social care
Is this page useful?
Maybe
Yes
this page is useful
No
this page is not useful
Thank you for your feedback
Report a problem with this page
Help us improve GOV.UK
Do not include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.
This field is for robots only. Please leave blank
What were you doing?
What went wrong?
Send
Cancel
Help us improve GOV.UK
To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab
and requires JavaScript
)
.
Cancel
Services and information
Benefits
Births, death, marriages and care
Business and self-employed
Childcare and pare